 IMPORTANT GUIDELINES FOR STUDENTS
1. University ID card is mandatory
• All students must have a valid legible University ID card, otherwise they will not be allowed
to appear in an examination. The photograph and student credential should be clearly visible
on the ID card.
• In case a student does not carry the University ID card due to unforeseen circumstances only,
they shall be required to download and print the admit card available on the UMS path (UMS
navigation → Examination system → Admit card) and show the same to the invigilator.
2. Student should not carry any electronic gadget such as mobile phone, wired or wireless
earphones/headphones, or smart-watches. Anyone carrying the same will be asked to leave the
examination center, and a UMC case will be registered for the same.
Note: - No additional time or any other form of relaxation or benefit shall be given to such students to
manage their device's safe-keeping. Students must not indulge in any form of argument with the
staff on duty. Violating the code of conduct of examination shall invite disciplinary action.
3. Check your pockets thoroughly to remove any paper- related materials to avoid UMC (Unfair means
cases). Only university ID card and examination admit cards are allowed inside examination venue.
4. DO NOT write anything on the question paper except the registration number. Writing on any surface,
such as skin or clothes, is prohibited and shall invite disciplinary action and an Unfair means case
(UMC).
5. Check the course code and paper code thoroughly
Please ensure the question paper given to you is of the correct course code. For OMR-based paper,
make sure that the paper code on the question paper matches with the OMR sheet. If you attempt the
wrong question paper code or incorrect course code, the paper will not be evaluated, and no second
chance will be given.
6. Reporting of question paper discrepancy
Student can report a discrepancy in the question paper through the following two methods:
• Reporting during the examination: - If a student observes a discrepancy during the exam,
student shall demand the discrepancy form from the invigilator. The student shall fill out the
form and submit it to the invigilator.
• Reporting after the examination: - The student can also report the discrepancy in the
question paper immediately after completing the examination by visiting the examination
control room/examination center and reporting the discrepancy.
7. If you have a contagious infection that can impact the health of students and staff, please inform the
examination staff. In this case, you are not allowed to appear for the examination. You will be given
another chance to appear for the same on submission of a valid medical certificate in 32-101A
(Examination Window) with no additional fee.
8. All students are required to strictly adhere to the gate opening time for entry start and gate closing
time for entry close as listed below.
9. All students must reach in the examination room as per reporting time mentioned in the seating plan
tab of the students UMS login.
IMPORTANT NOTE:
Further, all students are hereby informed that if anyone is found involved in any act that account to an
"Unfair Means Case", then his/her university scholarship shall stand cancelled for the rest of the
programme duration along with a penal action as per the university regulations.
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR CANDIDATE/STUDENT
1. The examination rooms will be opened half an hour before the start of exam.
2. All the candidates are strictly instructed to occupy their seats as per reporting time i.e.
30 Minutes before the start time of examination. Candidate should be seated as per
seating plan displayed outside examination room.
3. If due to some unavoidable circumstances, candidate is late for more than 30 minutes
from the reporting time, he /she may be allowed to appear provisionally after getting
the written approval from center superintendent. The application for the approval shall
mention:
• Reason of late reporting.
• Commitment to avoid late coming in future and
• Undertaking that the entrance in the examination is provisional and subject to
approval from the controller of Examination. If the controller of Examination
disapproves his request, candidate cannot show his right on evaluation of his
answer script.
4. It’s not the right of the candidate to enter late in the examination hall. The Concerned
authority (controller of Examination / Centre Superintendent) if feels that candidate is
late because of some genuine reason then he/she may allow the candidate at their own
discretion.
5. For every candidate the seat will be allocated by mentioning his / her roll/registration
number in the seating plan. Candidate should occupy the allocated seat only.
6. Before the start of examination, candidate should properly check his pockets, allotted seat
and floor area surrounding his seat. In case he finds any unauthorized material, he shall
surrender the same to the invigilating staff. Such unauthorized material shall not be
with the candidate or on his seat or near his seat.
7. Before start of examination, candidate should count the number of pages of answer
sheet as indicated on answer sheet and ensure that no page is misprinted/torn of answer
sheet.
8. Before start of examination, candidate should ensure that question paper received is
correct (paper of his course code).
9. Candidates are not allowed to change their seats without the permission of the
invigilator. If he does so, strict action against the candidate will be taken.
10. Candidate shall not talk in the examination hall without the permission of the
supervisory staff on duty. Candidates requiring assistance from an invigilator must
raise their hand.
11. Candidates are not permitted to communicate by any means with another candidate during
an examination. There must be no breach of examination security by talking, looking
around or passing notes during an examination. Taking help from the official on duty is
also prohibited.
12. If a candidate creates disturbance in the examination hall or outside the examination hall
and/or disobey the staff / faculty on examination duty and/or Misbehaves with the staff /
faculty on duty. Then he/she will be forced to leave the examination hall and appropriate
action may be taken against him. He may be debarred from appearing in the future
examinations.
13. Before attempting the paper, the candidate shall fill all the details on the answer sheet
like name, roll no, date, course, subject etc. Candidate shall also sign on the provided
space.
14. All the instructions mentioned on the answer sheets shall be read before start of
exam and should be followed in full spirit.
15. In case graph / continuation sheets are used in the exam, the roll number must be
written only on the space provided. In case no space is provided, it shall be written on
top right corner.
16. Candidate should not put any identification marks on the answer sheets.
17. Candidate should not write any request to the examiner in the answer sheets.
18. All candidates shall also mention their roll no. / Registration number on the question
paper. Other than roll no. / Registration number nothing should be written on the question
paper or any other paper (e.g roll no. slip) during the examination.
19. Candidates can use only blue ink pens. However, for certain subject like science and
mechanical exam which require the use of colored pencils or pen, the use of such pens
is allowed.
20. Candidate should make sure that the invigilator has signed on his answer sheet.
21. Writing on the back side of the first page (front page with space for writing roll
number etc.) of answer sheet is prohibited. For all other pages, candidate should write on
both sides.
22. Candidate should not tear any page of answer sheet.
23. Except question paper (If allowed), no other paper is allowed to be taken out from
the examination room / hall.
24. Roaming around the examination center after the end of examination is also not allowed.
25. Candidate can submit the answer/OMR sheet after the expiry of half time along with
the question paper or rough sheets (if any issued). Also immediately leave the examination
center otherwise strict action may be taken.
26. All student must adhere to the following
• For only MCQ’s based examination (Duration 2 hrs.): - Students are not
allowed for bio-break till the expiry of the exam.
• For MCQs and Subjective based examination (Duration 3 hrs.): - Bio-breaks is
not allowed during the first 60 minutes (till the submission of OMR sheets) from
the commencement of exam and after the half time from start of exam. However, a
student shall leave the examination room after the submission of answer sheet and
question paper at the expiry of half time. In case of any urgency such as medical
issues etc. students may be allowed for bio-break with the special permission of
SOC (superintendent of center).
• For all Subjective examination (Duration 3 hrs.): - Students are not allowed for
Bio-breaks during the first 60 minutes from the commencement of exam and after
the expiry of half time. However, in case of any urgency such as medical issues etc.
students may be allowed with the special permission of SOC (superintendent of
center).
27. Candidates are not permitted
• To eat or smoke during an examination.
• To borrow/share any stationery item such as pen, pencil, calculator (if allowed) etc.
during the examination.
• To carry any electronic gadget in the examination center. If any candidate is found
to be in possession or indulge in usage of any electronic device, the UMC (Unfair
Means Case) will be taken against him/her.
28. Candidates are allowed
• To carry only drinking water into the examination room in a clear, non-labeled
bottle/container.
UNFAIR MEANS CASE
If a candidate is found to be party of any of the following, his answer book will be
cancelled and UMC case will be framed as per the prescribed examination rules:
1. Talking to another candidate/ some other person, within or outside the examination hall
during the examination period.
2. Writing either the questions set in the paper or solution thereof on any piece of paper other
than answer sheet during the examination or changing seat in the examination hall without
permission.
3. Use abusive or obscene language in the answer book.
4. Any kind of request or proposition for financial deal to the examiner on the answer sheet.
5. Comes to the examination hall under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
6. In possession of relevant written or cyclostyled note or any printed material or notes
written on any part of his/her body or clothing or instruments such as electronic diary,
mobile phone (even in switched off condition), set-squares, calculator, scale etc. or having
notes / hints written on chair, table, desk or drawing board during the examination.
7. Consulting notes or books while outside the examination hall (i.e. in washrooms etc.)
8. Passing on a copy of question set in the paper or a solution thereof to any other candidate.
9. Received help from or given help to another candidate through some written material
pertaining to the questions set in the paper concerned or from his answer book.
10. Leaves the examination hall without delivering Answer-book, tears it, disposes off.
11. To be guilty of swallowing or destroying any note or paper found on him/her.
12. Found in possession of an answer book not his/her own or impersonating another candidate
in any examination will be treating under UMC.
13. Creating disturbance in the examination hall or its vicinity.
14. Organizing a walk out or instigating others to walk out.
15. Disturbing or disrupting the examination in any manner whatsoever.
16. Carrying into examination hall licensed or unlicensed fire-arms or any other weapons.
17. Non-compliance with the instructions of the Superintendent/member of examination
committee or any of the invigilators in the examination hall.
18. Serious misconduct outside the examination hall during the period of examination.
19. Use of force /threat against the supervisory staff/candidate.
20. Getting oneself impersonated by someone in the examination or impersonating another
candidate.
21. Student should not carry any electronic gadget such as mobile phone, wired or wireless
earphones/headphones, or smart-watches, even in switch off mode. The use of any AI tool
during the examination, carrying of the above mentioned will be treated under the UMC.
Further, all students are hereby informed that if anyone is found involved in any act
that amounts to “Unfair Means Case”, then his/her university scholarship shall stand
cancelled for rest of the programme duration along with a penal action as per university
regulations.
ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS TO
 CANDIDATE/STUDENT FOR OMR EXAMINATION
1. OMR sheet is prefilled i.e. all the details of candidate are prefilled in the OMR sheet. So
additional time will not be given for filling student credentials.
2. Accept the OMR sheet after verifying your Regd. No., Photograph and Course Code. It is
the responsibility of the student to accept the correct OMR sheet and then put his/her
signature in the designated space. In case there is any mismatch report immediately to the
invigilator.
3. Use only Black/Blue pen for marking answers. OMR sheets marked with pencils will not
be evaluated.
4. Do not make any modification or changes on the OMR sheet.
5. Do not write anything or anywhere on OMR sheet.
6. Cutting and erasing is not allowed on the OMR sheet.
7. The bubbles should be darkened completely and only one bubble should be shaded for one
question. In case more than one bubble is shaded the answer will be considered as wrong.
For eg.
8. Rough work should be done only on the rough sheet which is provided by the invigilator.
Student should write the registration number on each rough sheet.
• For MCQs and Subjective based examination only one rough sheet will
provide to the student.
• For only MCQ’s based examination two rough sheets will provide to the
student.
9. Before leaving the examination hall, the student should hand over the OMR sheet, question
paper with rough sheet(s) to the invigilator.
10. No student is allowed to leave the examination hall before the stipulated time.
11. The student should accept the question paper only after matching the paper code shaded on
the OMR sheet with the paper code mentioned on the question paper and ensuring that both
are the same.
12. Do not write anything on the question paper except your registration no. on the designated
space.
13. Strictly follow the instructions mentioned on question paper and the OMR sheet.
14. Do not fold and tear the OMR sheet.